PRIMATE PLUNGE TIPS AND TRICKS
http://www.aelius.com/primateplunge/


Jungle Jitters This world is quite straightforward, containing the most
basic platforms - normal branches, spikey branches (which deal 4 points
of damage) and the trampoline. While descending through the world
normally, any platform which doesn't deal you damage will heal you a
single point of health. Remember that trampolines will heal you a single
point each time you bounce on them!

Crumble Canyon The start of the world can be quite tricky, as the slow
speed actually makes it more difficult - when the world is moving
faster, it is easier to find a platform which won't crumble. Grab a
parachute as often as possible, but make sure you don't risk death in
doing so! Take advantage of the parachute as much as possible - it runs
out after a length of time, not after usage. When you don't have any
parachute and the level is moving slowly, think out every move carefully
before you make it. Try not to start falling from your platform until
you are sure you can get to a safe one. If there is no safe one within
easy reach and you are getting too close to the ceiling, try to drop
onto a series of crumbling platforms, landing on each, as they will slow
your descent. When the level is going really fast, parachutes are easier
to collect, and the game turns more into a challenge to dodge the
platforms rather than land on them - try go round them whenever
possible, using short burst from the parachute to slow yourself down if
necessary. Have fun when falling down this level at crazy speeds in
pursuit of your fifth star!

Frenzied Falls Frenzied Falls doesn't contain any powerups, so is more a
matter of good jumping and being as careful as possible. The gravity on
this world is quite loose, so you should be able to find that you can
jump further than you can on in other worlds. As the level begins to
speed up, avoid the trampolines like the plague - the combination of
speed and floaty gravity can make it very easy to bounce and hit the
ceiling. Don't worry too much about landing on piranhas, as long as you
drop off them instantly they can be a valuable aid to getting to the
harder to reach ledges.

Molten Mayhem There are two important types of platform in this world -
the hot and the very hot (dripping lava) rocks. The very hot rocks act
like the piranhas from Frenzied Falls, while the hot rocks won't even
damage you at all as long as you don't stay on them for too long. There
is an important trick which is vital to learn here - using the jumping
bean to continually jump up and down while on the hot rocks will prevent
damage completely. The jumping bean is therefore a lifesaver. Once you
have learnt to "hot potato" your way down the world, completing it
should become relatively easy. Remember it is possible to hold your
powerup key continually to keep jumping on a platform.

Sky Scrapes The longest world is also the most difficult, and the pay it
is played is quite different from the previous four worlds. It will
probably take some practice, whatever your skill level. It is very
important that you avoid the damaging platforms whenever platforms,
since they are so numerous that getting back to health can be very
tricky. On this level, the jetpack is essential, and winning the game
will probably involve jetpacking almost all the way down. The jetpack
powerup only lasts for 6 seconds, but are found very frequently -
usually you will only manage to renew it just in time! Even though you
have the jetpack, try to make a habit of landing on all the safe
platforms as you move down the level, as if you land on a harmful one by
mistake this is a very useful strategy. So as a summary, if you are
finding this a difficult world to beat: - Get the jetpack whenever
possible, even if it means hurting yourself slightly - If you become
hurt at all, try to touch any and every safe platform you possibly can -
When using the jetpack, start using it as soon as you have dropped off
your platform. It is very low powered, so it will struggle to save you
if you are already falling at speed. - Practise! If you have come this
far, there is no doubt that you will be able to pass this level
eventually.